# Classifying-Promoters-by-Interpreting-the-Hidden-Information-of-DNA-Sequences
The scientific community has long been interested in learning crucial information about protein-coding genes. Finding the promoters is therefore the first step in finding genes in DNA sequences. The scientific world has always been attracted by the effort to glean crucial knowledge about protein-coding genes. Consequently, identifying promoters has emerged as an intriguing challenge that has caught the interest of numerous researchers in the field of bioinformatics. This project utilizes a dataset from the UCI Machine learning repository. We proposed Gaussian Decision Boundary Estimation in machine learning models to detect transcription start sites (promoters) in the DNA sequences of a common bacteria, Escherichia coli. The best features are identified through a score-based function to select relevant nucleotides that are directly responsible for promoter recognition, in order maximise the models' performance. The Gaussian Decision Boundary Estimation based support-vector-machine model is trained with these features and finds the best hyperplane that separates the data into different classes. Throughout this study, promoter regions could be identified with high accuracy 99.9 % which is better compared to other state of art algorithms. The comparison of machine learning classification models is another major emphasis of this paper in order to identify the model that most accurately predicts DNA sequence promoters. It provides analysis for further biological research as well as precision medicine. 
